where does the story of Adam
alaihissalam begin does it begin on the
earth or does it begin in Jannah
the story of Adam alaihissalam begins in
Jannah
in the next or in the next Ayah keep
this in mind in the next Ayah Allah will
tell us something so shocking by the way
this is part one of six of the of the
material we have to cover today this is
section one heaven or earth that is the
section we're in heaven or Earth
your master said to all of the angels I
am putting a Khalifa I'm not translating
it yet I am putting a Khalifa on the
Earth
I am putting a Khalifa on the Earth
this is a pretty interesting statement
to make
human beings their Story begins you told
me I didn't tell you you told me that
the story of Adam alaihissalam begins
where
in heaven and Allah before he even made
the human being is making an
announcement to the angels telling them
that he is creating this thing this
human being who he calls a Khalifa we'll
get to that in a second
he's creating this Khalifa for the Earth
where is the Khalifa made for what
according to the Ayah was the Khalifa
made for Jannah or was the Khalifa made
for the Earth
it's made for the Earth before Adam was
even created
the plan always was that this creature
has been designed and created for the
Earth
section one of this story heaven or
Earth is important because a lot of
people think the Sunday school version
of the story
which is highly incorrect is that Adam
and his wife our mother were having a
great time in Jannah until somehow they
decided by the wasab shaytan because of
shaitaan's whisper to eat from that tree
the second they eat from that tree they
lost their place in Jannah and as a
punishment Allah decided to send them to
the earth I am letting you know today
the Quran is telling you that actually
he was supposed to be on earth all along
that was always part of the plan that
was not a punishment from Allah us being
on Earth Muslims are very different when
they think about the story even how the
Christians think about the story this
life this Earthly life is a curse until
we get back into heaven
not for the Muslims
for the Muslims even before the story
began what did Allah say he made
everything on this Earth for who
for you as a gift well
I don't know is that my lunch or okay
he made everything on this Earth for you
for you this Dunya is not a curse
there are some people this this we're
living in this Earth because our father
Adam made this terrible mistake it's all
his fault et cetera Etc we have to pay
the price by if he didn't eat from that
tree we would still be chilling in
Jannah
uh no
you were meant to be here just like he
was meant to be here
but that creates a really really big
problem a problem that I have talked to
thousands of young people about all over
the world all over the world the same
question over and over again but before
I share that question with you let me
tell you a story that has nothing to do
with Adam and has nothing to do with any
of this evening it's just a complete
distraction or is it let's see
there's going to be two stories that I
tell you
here's the first story
there is a man who works at a company
he's a good employee he's doing a good
job
and his boss sends an email to the
entire department that we are going to
transfer this guy
to Mississippi
he's gonna we're gonna move him out of
New York or New Jersey I'm going to move
into Mississippi he's being transferred
this week the only person who never got
the email is the guy himself
he's the only one who never got the
email okay now
the next week the guy comes into his
office 30 seconds late
his boss says can I talk to you for a
second
he says yeah sure what happened
uh you were 30 seconds late
and I specifically told everyone in the
office to be the office on time
we don't tolerate this kind of behavior
you are being shipped to Mississippi
is that fair
everybody else in the company already
knew what
that he was going to be transferred and
as a matter of fact one of his friends
who got the email shared it with him hey
by the way you're about to be
transferred
and while he was talking to his friend
he got 30 seconds late and he walked
into the office and the boss says you're
going to be shipped to Mississippi and
he says excuse me no no no you're not
shipping me anywhere because I was late
you're shipping me because you already
decided that you're gonna ship me
that was the plan all along that's not
my fault you already planned all of this
this is all a trap
I'm not talking about Mississippi am I
Allah created Adam
he always meant to send him where
on the Earth
Iblis comes and tells him and this is
actually in the Quran ibiz comes and
tells him you need to eat from this tree
by the way that tree was Far Far Away
Jannah is much bigger than Earth and
there are lots of trees in Jannah and
all of them are full of fruits
all of them are full of fruits all of
them have all kinds of and they come to
you the fruits come to you
you know you don't even have to make any
effort you're just told Just Don't Go
Near that one tree that one tree of all
the trees and then the police comes and
says hey by the way
from what I know you were not created
for Jannah you were created for what
the Earth
and you need to eat from that tree and
let me tell you why because the only
kind of people that can stay here are
either Angels or permanent residents you
are neither of those things eating from
that tree will either turn you into an
angel both of you you'll become Angels
or you will become permanent residents
I'm not making this up this is
what I'm we're not talking about today
either you will both become Angels or
you'll become permanent residents so the
motivation that was given to Adam to eat
from the tree was actually had to do
with his transfer you need to understand
this point it's transfer to where
the Earth he makes the historic mistake
that he makes our mother makes the
mistake with him they eat from the tree
Allah decides to send them where
the Earth what could they turn around
and say
uh
excuse me you you were you were always
going to send us
you issued an email to all the angels
that you're creating a Khalifa for where
the Earth you even decided that before
we were even created let me tell you the
question young people ask me all the
time
if Allah already knows what am I what
I'm going to do
how's it my fault
Allah has already decided where I'm
going to end up it's all a setup
the first and by the way the the
question of predestination is the oldest
question in philosophy
any of the students here any college
students here that have taken a
philosophy course you have dealt with
the predestination problem people that
aren't even philosophically inclined
have heard about this problem Allah
already knows everything how is it my
fault the first human being on the Earth
was actually the first human being that
could have asked the same question
directly to Allah but let me tell you
another crazy story before we wrap this
point up heaven or Earth
let's understand another part of this
problem
I'll give you another story and that has
to do with another guy who works at
another company
and he started as a janitor he started
just
the lowest possible job in the company
and he got promoted a little bit they
let him become a security guard he got
promoted a few years later now he works
at the front desk he got promoted a
little later and after a few years now
he's actually an office manager and he
kept getting promoted he started outside
as a janitor and 40 years serving this
company he is now the vice president of
this company he's been promoted
throughout the years and now he's in
this executive position
the there's only one job higher than the
VP who's that
the president
one day and you let's imagine that you
work for the guy you're just sitting
outside his office you're a secretary
right and the president walks into the
office with the 16 year old kid with a
baseball hat on Sideways chewing gum
he's a 16 year old and the President
says hey by the way VP listen
um this right here
sub
this right here
is your new VP
and you need to give him your chair
because that's his chair now and why
don't you go run and get him some coffee
what do you imagine happened next
if the VP that has made his way up over
the course of 40 years is now being told
to serve some 16 year old coffee because
he has his job now what do you imagine
is going to happen
you're going to hear some serious
yelling and screaming what are you crazy
how old is this kid
he's still in diapers he's going to take
my job
you know how long I work to get up to
this position you can't do this to me
this is ridiculous aren't you gonna hear
the story
and if you do hear it who do you
sympathize with
that's the really hard question who do
you sympathize with the kid
or the VP
the VP but I'm not talking about a VP am
I
who do you think I'm talking about
I'm talking about it please
shaytan worked his way up he even
started getting considered among the
rank of the angels and finally they've
put a rebellion down on the earth of
other Jinn that disobey Allah and they
come back Victor is ready to be honored
by Allah and Allah makes the
announcement you need to do such that to
who
Adam excuse me who's he what did he ever
do
I just did so much work I've been doing
work for so long I have provided this
administration of Allah so many services
where does he come along from now you
know why I'm bringing this up because
I'm comparing two individuals I'm
comparing Adam
and Iblis listen carefully Adam was
honored by Allah yes or no
if Lise was honored by Allah at one
point yes or no
[Music]
was given a position
even in some sense higher than the
angels I believe some argue leadership
over the Angels some argue even at least
at the rank of the angels He was given a
high rank too Adam ended up disobeying
Allah yes or no
he did Iblis disobeyed Allah yes or no
they have a lot in common
up until now they have a lot in common
but there is one difference
when he was demoted when he was sent
down to the Earth he could have asked a
logical question and his logical
question would have been Ya Allah you
always plan to send me to the Earth how
is this my fault couldn't he have asked
that question sure
but did he ask that question
no
iblies can also ask a logical question
you made me from fire you made him from
dirt what is he worth look at him
it's actually pretty logical
it is logical
both of them were in a position to ask
or make a logical complaint to Allah
and yet one of them is cursed forever
and the other one the Door of Hope
remains open
why because one of them decides that
whether things make sense to me or not I
have to trust the wisdom of Allah
have to trust the wisdom of Allah if
there is a fault whose fault is it
my own I have to take personal
responsibility I did something wrong who
is that is that Adam or Iblis who takes
personal responsibility
Salaam
and I believe says actually you made me
slip your you knew I was gonna mess up
you caused me to be misled he starts
blaming Allah
when you mess up and you blame Allah you
are following the Sunnah of Iblis
and when you mess up
and you admit that you're the one who's
wrong instead of blaming the Qatar of
Allah or it was decreed by Allah then
you are following the Sunnah of
that's the difference between these two
now let's take a step further the earth
I told you is not a curse there's a
common Christian Creed among many many
from from ancient times common Christian
misconception the Earth is a is a time
of punishment human beings are born into
sin not the case in Islam Allah says
we put on this Earth means for you to
live well Allah wants you to live well
on this Earth and gain your place back
in tajanna
but one more important point before I go
on about from the subject of heaven or
Earth
and this point has to do with again
personal responsibility
there's a lot of philosophical
discussion about predestination and if
Allah already knows how is it my fault
if something bad happens it happens
because Allah let it happen so how is it
my fault
when people come and ask me this kind of
question
even though I can't technically do what
I really want to do because it's illegal
um
but I imagine if I were to be able to
take a shoe
and
throw it at the guy's face
would he be offended
who would he angry who would he be angry
with
me
and I could turn around that was the
Qatar of Allah
you see Allah decided that you should
get hit in the face
with my smelly shoe
this wasn't actually up to me if it was
up to me I wouldn't have done it
you see
but the problem is no matter how much I
try to convince him that it wasn't me it
was who
Allah he still stays mad at who
me
I say okay fine you want to hold me
personally responsible for what I did
instead of blaming Allah oh yeah Allah
did it right you hitted me you hit me
okay fine you want me to hold personal
responsibility why don't you take
personal responsibility then
the question is entirely about what
personal responsibility that's what this
question is about
decided to eat from the tree despite
Allah's instruction yes or no
yeah and he had to take personal
responsibility and he had to say at the
end of the day
and fusana as opposed to Iblis who put
the responsibility to Allah if Adam says
we wronged ourselves Iblis says you made
me slip
you made me you made this happen to me
you know you're the cause subhanallah
that is the first of six parts of the
story that I wanted to share with you
here's the second what in the world does
Khalifa mean
because at the end of the day Allah says
Khalifa I am putting a Khalifa on the
earth and Khalifa means many things I'm
only going to highlight three of those
things to you
the first of them is a successor
it's a big word in English I know I'll
explain it inshallah become easy to
understand I am putting a successor on
the Earth
Allah describes successors sometimes you
know for example if a principal from a
school retires and somebody else takes
his place right they hire the school
hires a new principal that new principle
will be a successor that would be in a
sense
not in the political sense in the Arabic
sense in the Arabic sense that's
actually a Khalifa or there used to be
the head of a family and the head of the
family the grandfather passed away now
the oldest uncle is the people the
person they go to for advice that oldest
uncle is now the what
the Khalifa he's the one left behind in
charge
so this is an idea of charge I will
leave somebody that will keep passing on
responsibility this is the first meaning
of the word Khalifa in other words you
were past a responsibility from the
people who came before you and you are
going to have to pass responsibility on
to the people that come after you that
is especially true within your own
family your parents handed you certain
responsibilities and one day you'll
become a parent or you're already a
parent and you're in the process of
handing the same responsibilities down
to your kids about this Allah says in
the Quran
it's such a beautiful Ayah your rub your
master is runny he doesn't need anybody
he possesses all kinds of love and mercy
he does not need you on this Earth and
then he says
if he wants he could remove all of you
Muslims he doesn't need any of you he
could remove all of you and he could
replace you after you he could succeed
you yes same root origin he could
replace you and succeed you with
whatever he wants afterwards
another place he says
if you turn away he'll just replace you
with another Nation altogether he
doesn't need you
the Islam will be succeeded by other
people even if they're not even from
your own ethnicity it will be succeeded
that's the first meaning of Khalifa the
second meaning of the word Khalifa
it's a really interesting one Khalifa
means someone left to their own devices
if I go home right now if I if I say hey
and my all my kids are sleeping only
Walid is awake
we'll leave you're awake you're in
charge he's four he's five years old
you're in charge will lead
don't eat the cookies
I'll be back in five minutes
for those five minutes Walid is what
he's a Khalifa
Khalifa Walid
okay
now Khalifa Walid you know what he's a
Khalifa number one I left him behind
he takes my place as the guy in charge
little little tiny guy in charge but the
second reason he's Khalifa is in those
five minutes he has the freedom to do
what
whatever he wants
whatever he wants I mean I've asked him
not to eat the cookies but I'm not there
to check
I'm not there to check in those five
minutes he could literally do whatever
he wants he has the choice in other
words when you say Khalifa someone left
to their own devices you necessarily
mean somebody who has a choice
they can do what you asked or they could
do otherwise
I'm going to let him make the decision
himself
Allah has made an announcement to the
angels that I will put someone on this
Earth who I will leave to make the
decision his or herself Allah is not
going to force any decision on you
you're going to have to decide whether
you want to wake up and pray or not
you tell the truth or not you're going
to have to decide whether you have a
permissible good blessed relationship or
an impermissible cursed evil
relationship a secret relationship
that's all going to be up to you
you're gonna have the choice on what to
download and what not to download you're
going to be a Khalifa
this is the second meaning
now here's the third meaning
it actually means stewardship
someone given irresponsibility by
somebody else
not just to take somebody else's place
but to take responsibility and this is
different from taking ownership actually
a Khalifa means somebody else handed it
to me and I will hand have to hand it to
somebody else which means I don't own it
I don't own it human beings will be sent
on this earth and the ones who
understand that they are Khalifa will
understand that they actually own
nothing
Allah alone owns whatever's in Disguise
and whatever's in the earth no matter
what you and I think we own we own these
clothes we own these shoes we own the
car we think we own this stuff but by
the way we are going to have to return
all of this stuff
and we're gonna go and we're not gonna
take any of this stuff with us as a
matter of fact
we are so beyond the scope of ownership
we don't even own our own physical body
this body is actually going to be
testifying against us on Judgment Day we
don't own it
we're just like these little control
guys inside
that are in charge of this body but this
body is not ours technically it's not
ours and Allah will take it back too
even this he will take back this all
three of these meanings I'll summarize
them again because this is our second
discussion these three meanings are on
the one hand somebody who succeeds
on the second somebody who has given who
has been given freedom to decide to make
his own decisions and the third someone
who has been handed a responsibility
these are the three primary meanings of
what word
Khalifa This is what Allah decided he
will put on this Earth You and me are
going to have freedom we've been handed
a powerful responsibility and the
announcement is being made to who
who was listening to this announcement
the angels
the angels are listening this Allah is
talking directly to the angels I have
decided to put a Khalifa on the earth
now the angels are actually quite a bit
in shock
this is one of my favorite parts of the
story one of the big reasons I chose to
tell this story this evening